{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-BoldOblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs48 \cf0 MySQL Caching Class
\fs24 \
\
With this release of FX.php I'm including the MySQL Caching Class created by Chris Adams.  Chris has agreed to make this available under the same Artistic License under which FX.php is released.\
\
You may note that I'm not including a lot of documentation on this class.  However, I know there are some people out there who are willing to take a grab-a-book-and-go-for-it approach.  (What is wrong with us anyway...)  Some of you may even know MySQL already.  For all of those people, I wanted to get this out the door ASAP.\
\
So, why would we want to use MySQL with FileMaker anyway?  Performance!  A massive speed boost to the tune of two orders of magnitude -- i.e. your 30 second search now takes one third of a second!  For many things, FileMaker is fast enough.  For some applications, a cache doesn't make sense (how old are these stock quotes anyway?)  Still, there are situations where a cache is ideal (e.g. why search your million part database every time, when Widget_A has 
\f1\i\b always
\f0\i0\b0  been made up of the same 253 parts?)\
\
Enjoy!  I hope you'll forgive the lack of detailed instructions.  I'll put some together just as soon as I get a chance.  In the meantime, ZOOOM!\
\
--Chris Hansen}